---
id: 10
title: Non-Monetary Employee Incentives
category: business
tags: [research, systems, benefits]
authors: [1]
status: draft
description:
  Business has been my passion for over 10 years, it's the sole reason I got into development and
  what has propelled my learning. Below are some of my favourite articles I've read over the years.
featured_image: projects/mlfx-website/hero.png
date: 2023/10/27
---

1. **Transparency**: Share the company's growth vision to help employees see the impact of their
   work.
2. **Recognition**: Acknowledge individual and team achievements with appreciations and rewards.
3. **Feedback**: Encourage employees to share feedback, listen to their opinions, and respond
   thoughtfully.
4. **Career Advancement**: Discuss career goals with employees, offering clear pathways to
   advancement.
5. **Gratitude**: Express thanks to employees for their efforts, making them feel valued.
6. **Flexible Scheduling**: Provide scheduling flexibility to accommodate personal needs while
   maintaining work standards.
7. **Work-Life Balance**: Promote a healthy balance, offering time off and wellness activities.
8. **Trust and Autonomy**: Trust employees with responsibilities, allowing them the freedom to
   innovate.
9. **Leadership Opportunities**: Rotate leadership roles to motivate employees and foster growth.
10. **Positivity**: Maintain a positive attitude to inspire and motivate the team, seeking external
    support when needed.
11. **Free Vacations**: Reward major accomplishments with a trip and extra paid time off.
12. **Improved Equipment**: Upgrade desk, computer or chair for better work comfort.
13. **Casual Dress Days**: Relax dress code weekly or post-project.
14. **Outside Services**: Offer services like chiropractic care or yoga.
15. **Gift Cards**: Reward high achievers with personalized gift cards.
16. **Company Picnics**: Foster team-building with outings to amusement parks or zoos.
17. **Branded Gear**: Distribute company-branded clothing or mugs.
18. **Public Recognition**: Celebrate employee achievements on social media or events.
19. **Charitable Donation**: Donate to a charity on behalf of an employee.
20. **Dogs at Office**: Allow pets for a day or invite shelter dogs.
21. **Handwritten Note**: Show appreciation with a personalized note.
22. **Entertainment Tickets**: Offer tickets to concerts or sporting events.
23. **Memberships**: Provide gym or club memberships.
24. **Dinner on the Boss**: Take employees out for a meal.
25. **Year-End Party**: Organize a fun-filled work party.
26. **Plaque**: Gift a physical award for achievements.
27. **Scratch-offs**: Hand out lottery tickets for a fun chance to win.
28. **House Cleaning**: Offer cleaning services for work-life balance.
29. **Rideshare Reimbursement**: Cover rideshare costs for easier commute.
30. **Meal Delivery**: Celebrate with a catered lunch.
31. **Gift Delivery**: Send flowers or gifts to employees' homes.
