---
id: 1
title: Cultivating a Robust Company Culture with Core Values at Incubrain
category: business
tags: [culture, systems]
authors: [1]
contributors: []
primaryKeyword: Company Culture
secondaryKeywords: [Innovative Thinking, Workplace Transparency, Leadership in Business]
status: published
description:
  Explore how Incubrain champions company culture through core values, emphasizing innovative thinking, resilience,
  and transparency to foster employee engagement and leadership in business.
featured_image: incubrain-company-values.webp
version: 0.6
updatedAt: 2024/01/10
publishedAt: 2023/10/18
---

## **Cultivating Company Culture at Incubrain**

In an era where businesses face constant change, the backbone of every successful company lies not just in its products or services, but in its deeply-rooted values.

These values, central to fostering a thriving company culture, serve as guiding principles for decision-making and help in creating a workplace environment that stands out.

The essence of company values lies in their profound impact on multiple facets of organizational success and employee satisfaction. This is evidenced by a myriad of studies and surveys, which collectively highlight the importance of a well-defined company culture. 

More than half of CEOs and CFOs, as reported by Forbes, recognize the influential role of corporate culture in enhancing productivity, creativity, profitability, firm value, and growth rates.

Similarly, according to Businesswire, a majority of HR leaders (80%) have acknowledged the implementation of employee recognition programs, a reflection of the company's values in action. This emphasis on recognition is corroborated by Haiilo's finding that 37% of employees consider recognition crucial for their success.

Furthermore, Bultin reports that a substantial 88% of employees believe a strong company culture is key to business success, underscoring the direct link between organizational values and overall performance.

The alignment of company values with employee expectations and workplace environment is equally critical. Jobvite's revelation that 15% of job seekers have turned down job offers due to misaligned company culture emphasizes the importance of values in recruitment and retention.

Additionally, Gallup highlights that only a minority of U.S. employees feel they can apply their organization's values to their work daily, indicating a gap that needs bridging for optimal employee engagement and productivity.

The significance of this alignment is further illustrated by the statistics from Robert Half and TINYpulse, indicating that 35% of U.S. workers would decline an ideal job if the company culture didn’t fit, and employees who dislike their company’s culture are 24% more likely to quit.

These findings collectively illustrate that robust and well-communicated company values not only attract and retain talent but also foster a work environment conducive to growth, innovation, and sustained business success.

At Incubrain, **our values are more than just words, they're the essence of who we are** and how we operate in the realm of business ethics and leadership.

---

The article ["Make Your Values Mean Something."](https://hbr.org/2002/07/make-your-values-mean-something) from the Harvard Business Review, written by Patrick M. Lencioni, presents a critical view of corporate values statements. Lencioni argues that many companies’ values statements are often ineffective, bland, or dishonest, sometimes even causing harm by creating cynicism among employees and undermining managerial credibility.

He uses Enron as an example of a company with ostensibly strong values—Communication, Respect, Integrity, Excellence—that turned out to be hollow, as evidenced by the company's infamous collapse. 

Lencioni suggests that for values statements to be meaningful, companies should follow four key imperatives:

1. **Understand the Different Types of Values**: Distinguishing between core, aspirational, permission-to-play, and accidental values is crucial. Confusion among these can mislead employees and make management seem out of touch.

2. **Be Aggressively Authentic**: Companies should avoid generic values that do not differentiate them from others. Values should be authentically integrated into the company’s culture.

3. **Own the Process**: Values initiatives should be driven by top leadership and not delegated to HR or treated as a consensus-building exercise.

4. **Weave Core Values into Everything**: Core values should be deeply integrated into every aspect of the employee experience, from hiring to performance management and dismissals.

Lencioni emphasizes that living by stated corporate values is challenging and requires real commitment. However, the benefits of genuinely implemented values are profound, as they can distinguish a company from competitors and serve as a rallying point for employees.

::article-cta
---
title: Want to join Incubrain?
body: We're always looking for talented, hard working people to join us in Pune, India.
cta: 
  title: Contribute To Get Noticed
  link: https://github.com/incubrain
---
::

## Incubrain's Core Values

### **Innovative Thinking at Work**

We foster a culture where innovative thinking and unconventional ideas are not just welcomed, but actively encouraged. At Incubrain, embracing the creative process is key to our success, leading to unique solutions and a dynamic approach to business challenges.

### **Ownership and Leadership**

We believe in empowering our team members to act as stakeholders in our business. This sense of ownership extends beyond just task completion to full responsibility for outcomes, fostering a culture of engagement and accountability.

### **Resourceful Problem-Solving**

Our approach to challenges is rooted in resourcefulness and creativity. We exhaust all avenues to find solutions, embodying the spirit of perseverance and adaptability, crucial for a resilient company culture.

### **Resilience in Company Culture**

Resilience is at the core of Incubrain's ethos. We understand that success is a journey with its ups and downs, and our unwavering commitment to pushing forward exemplifies our dedication to maintaining a strong, vibrant company culture.

### **Continuous Learning and Growth**

At Incubrain, we constantly seek ways to improve and evolve. By breaking down problems to their fundamental elements, we innovate and enhance our processes, contributing to a culture of continuous learning and development.

### **Curiosity is Key to Innovation**

Our relentless curiosity drives us to ask questions, learn, and innovate. This thirst for knowledge is a cornerstone of our company culture, propelling us to new heights in every aspect of our business.

### **Workplace Transparency**

Transparency is pivotal to our operations. We maintain an open and inclusive environment, ensuring that every voice is heard and valued, reinforcing trust and collaboration within our team.

### **Collaboration for Success**

Our belief in collaboration is fundamental. By bringing together diverse skills and perspectives, we achieve more, fostering a company culture that values collective effort and shared success.

### **Passionate Employee Engagement**

Our team's passionate engagement is what sets us apart. This passion fuels our commitment to excellence, drives our innovations, and leads to a deeply satisfying and productive work environment.

### **Systems for Efficient Work**

We emphasize the importance of systems in our operations for consistency and improvement. These systems form the backbone of our work processes, ensuring smooth transitions and continuous growth.

---

## **Conclusion**

Values are the bedrock of any sustainable company. At Incubrain, our values are living principles that actively shape our behaviors, influence our decisions, and form the heart of our identity. 

By upholding these values, we strive not only for business success but also to make a lasting, positive impact on our community and the industry.

### **FAQs**

::table-dynamic
---
headings: 
  - Question
  - Answer
rows:
  - question: What makes company culture so important in today's business environment?
    answer: Company culture is vital as it drives employee engagement, innovation, and resilience, directly impacting business success.
  - question: How do core values influence a company's operations?
    answer: Core values serve as guiding principles, shaping decision-making, employee behavior, and overall organizational ethos.
  - question: Can company culture impact customer satisfaction?
    answer: Absolutely, a positive and ethical company culture often translates into better customer service and client relations.
---
::


### **Sources**

::table-dynamic
---
addLink: title
headings: 
  - Title
  - About
rows:
  - title: Organizational Culture and Performance
    about: Explores Gallup's findings on how employees' understanding of company purpose and culture is directly linked to business health.
    link: https://www.gallup.com/workplace/236366/right-culture-not-employee-satisfaction.aspx
  - title: Culture's Correlation with Performance
    about: Discusses McKinsey & Company's research showing a strong correlation between culture and organizational performance.
    link: https://www.mckinsey.com/business-functions/organization/our-insights/culture-for-a-digital-age
  - title: Flexible Work and Company Culture
    about: Reports on Built In's study about the impact of flexible work on company culture, emphasizing work-life balance and productivity.
    link: https://builtin.com/company-culture
  - title: Culture as a Competitive Advantage
    about: Deloitte's analysis on how culture brings together the implicit and explicit reward systems, turning it into a competitive advantage.
    link: https://www2.deloitte.com/us/en/insights/focus/human-capital-trends/2016/impact-of-culture-on-business-strategy.html
  - title: When It Comes to Culture, Does Your Company Walk the Talk?
    about: A study of nearly 700 large companies, and their corporate values.
    link: https://sloanreview.mit.edu/article/when-it-comes-to-culture-does-your-company-walk-the-talk/
  - title: Company Values - Definition, Importance, and Examples
    about: Explores the significance of clearly defined company values in shaping goals, culture, and business strategies.
    link: https://haiilo.com/blog/the-importance-of-company-values/
  - title: Make Your Values Mean Something
    about: Indeed, most values statements, says the author, are bland, toothless, or just plain dishonest. And far from being harmless, as some executives assume, they’re often highly destructive.
    link: https://hbr.org/2002/07/make-your-values-mean-something
  - title: How to Establish Values on a Small Team
    about: Developing your corporate values early in your company’s history can have a lasting and positive effect on your organization and its culture, and it’s easier to do when your team is small.
    link: https://hbr.org/2018/04/how-to-establish-values-on-a-small-team
  - title: 75+ Examples of Company Values and How to Create Your Own in 2024
    about: Examines the importance of establishing company values, revealing Hotjar's process and providing guidance on developing values.
    link: https://www.hotjar.com/blog/company-values/
  - title: Corporate values - empty words or a crucial part of an organisation
    about: A case study analysing the challenges of establishing and implementing corporate values
    link: https://core.ac.uk/download/pdf/95665414.pdf
  - title: Analysis of Corporate Value Statements - An Empirical Study
    about: his study identifies, classifies, and discusses corporate values statements using companies that are listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
    link: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/334773849_Analysis_of_corporate_value_statements_an_empirical_study
---
::


