---
id: 5
title: We Welcome Unconventional Innovative Thinking
category: business
tags: [culture, systems]
authors: [1]
contributors: []
keywords: []
status: draft
description:
  Innovation is one of our core values at Incubrain. We foster a culture where new ideas and
  unconventional thinking are not just welcomed, but actively encouraged. We're not afraid to step
  into the unknown, embracing the creative process and all the unique solutions it brings.
featured_image: incubrain-values-innovation.webp
updatedAt: 2023/11/08
publishedAt: 2023/10/19
---

In the modern age of technology and startups, innovation stands as the cornerstone of progress. It's
the driving force that takes us beyond the realms of the ordinary and into the extraordinary. For
Pune-based tech company Incubrain, innovation isn't just a value; it's a way of life.

### **Why Innovation Matters**

In a 2019 study by [PwC](https://www.pwc.com/gx/en/ceo-agenda/ceosurvey/2019.html), innovation was
highlighted as the top priority for CEOs globally, second only to organic growth. The reason? With
rapidly changing technological landscapes, consumer demands, and competitive markets, businesses
that don't innovate risk becoming obsolete.

In Incubrain's particular niche - supporting early-stage IT startups - the necessity for innovation
becomes even more critical. Early-stage startups are agile and have the capacity to quickly adapt to
changing circumstances, but they often lack the resources and expertise needed to innovate at scale.
This is where Incubrain steps in.

### **Incubrain's Approach to Innovation**

By leveraging the relatively low cost of talent in India combined with an unmatched wealth of
experience in IT businesses, Incubrain offers startups a suite of services that can typically be
unaffordable. From business coaching and product planning to providing a full-time developer,
Incubrain ensures startups have the resources they need to transform their innovative ideas into
reality.

Yet, innovation at Incubrain is more than just about providing services. It's about fostering a
culture where unconventional thinking is not just welcomed but actively encouraged. The company
recognizes that true innovation often comes from stepping into the unknown. As the
[Harvard Business Review](https://hbr.org/2019/06/the-4-types-of-innovation-and-the-problems-they-solve)
notes, innovation isn't always about creating something entirely new, but can also involve combining
existing ideas in novel ways or even revisiting old ideas with a fresh perspective.

This is mirrored in Incubrain's decision to exclusively develop with Nuxt/Supabase. By zeroing in on
specific technologies, they ensure a depth of expertise that allows for truly innovative solutions,
catering to the unique needs and challenges of each startup they support.

### **A Business Model Rooted in Innovation**

Incubrain's innovative approach extends to its very business model. Recognizing the disparity in
developer costs across geographies, Incubrain targets areas where hiring a mid-level developer can
cost anywhere from USD 4,000-10,000 PM. By pooling resources and expertise, they offer unparalleled
value, providing their suite of services to five customers for a total of $10k PM. Not only does
this cover operational costs with a healthy profit margin, but it also positions Incubrain as a
highly attractive proposition for startups in need of affordable, high-quality IT support.

Furthermore, the company's long-term vision speaks volumes about its commitment to innovation. By
working towards a model where they incubate selected companies in exchange for company shares,
Incubrain draws inspiration from giants like [YCombinator](https://www.ycombinator.com/). This
strategy, once realized, will see Incubrain taking a more hands-on approach, working closely with
startups to actively drive and shape their innovative processes from the inside.

---

### **Conclusion: A Beacon for Startups**

Innovation is more than just a buzzword; it's the lifeblood of progress in the tech industry. For
startups, in particular, it can be the difference between success and stagnation. Incubrain
recognizes this, placing innovation at the heart of everything they do. From their service offerings
to their forward-thinking business model and long-term vision, Incubrain stands as a beacon for
startups in need of guidance, support, and most importantly, innovation.

So, for every startup out there looking to make their mark, remember that with Incubrain by your
side, the power of innovation is just a partnership away.
