---
id: 7
title: 50 Profit Sharing Companies
category: business
tags: [research, systems, salaries]
authors: [1]
contributors: []
primaryKeyword: []
status: published
description:
  Business has been my passion for over 10 years, it's the sole reason I got into development and
  what has propelled my learning. Below are some of my favourite articles I've read over the years.
featured_image: incubrain-company-values.webp
version: 0.1
updatedAt: 2023/11/08
publishedAt: 2023/10/27
---

[**Brewdog**](https://downloads.ctfassets.net/b0qgo9rl751g/19GdFhDUKznjZIWibGjhnm/f3207bd8a6d705feed924d5671b46e92/brewdog_cbs_workbook.pdf) 2.
[**Balsamiq**](https://balsamiq.com/company/how-we-work/caring-for-our-team/profit-sharing/)

Balsamiq operates a quarterly bonus program, distributing 20% of its adjusted profits to eligible
employees, known as "staffers." The bonus pool is divided, with 25% shared equally among all,
promoting team unity, and 75% distributed based on seniority, rewarding loyalty and smoothing the
impact of new hires. Bonuses are allocated to those working over 20 hours per week or having a
long-term collaboration with the company. Eligibility starts from the quarter an employee joins, and
extends till employment ends, with a pro-rated Exit Bonus if employment terminates. The scheme aims
at balancing noticeable bonuses without straining the company's finances, also encouraging expense
management by basing bonuses on profits rather than earnings.

1. **Amazon**:

   - **401(k) Offerings**: Amazon extends a 401(k) savings plan accompanied by a company match, plus
     company-funded life and accident insurance.
   - **Hiring Locations**: New York, Jersey City NJ, Newark NJ, Sunnyvale CA, Seattle, among others.

2. **Wells Fargo**:

   - **401(k) Offerings**: Post one-year employment, Wells Fargo matches contributions up to 6% of
     an employee's salary, alongside profit-sharing contributions based on work performance.
   - **Hiring Locations**: New York, Summit NJ, Hicksville NY, London UK, Manila PH, and more.

3. **Accenture**:

   - **401(k) Offerings**: New hires at Accenture can enroll in a 401(k) via automatic payroll
     deductions. After a year, the company matches contributions up to 6% of the pay.
   - **Hiring Locations**: New York, Florham Park NJ, Dallas, Seattle, Austin TX, and beyond.

4. **Comcast**:

   - **401(k) Offerings**: Comcast facilitates automatic 401(k) enrollment with matching
     contributions up to 6% of eligible pay.
   - **Hiring Locations**: New York, Union NJ, Saint Paul MN, Oakland CA, West Palm Beach FL,
     Pittsburgh, and more.

5. **Oracle**:

   - **401(k) Offerings**: Oracle offers a choice between pre-tax or post-tax contribution accounts,
     matching 50% of the first 6% of pre-tax contributions.
   - **Hiring Locations**: New York, Austin TX, Washington D.C., Salt Lake City, among others.

6. **Capital One**:

   - **401(k) Offerings**: Capital One introduces a 401(k) Associate Savings Plan, making
     contributions to employee accounts.
   - **Hiring Locations**: New York, Hoboken NJ, Jersey City NJ, Boston, Vienna VA, Richmond VA, San
     Francisco, and more.

7. **Target**:

   - **401(k) Offerings**: Target matches up to 5% of eligible pay for employees 18 or older, or
     with 1,000 service hours. Rollovers of previous 401(k)s are allowed for new hires.
   - **Hiring Locations**: New York, Fresno CA, Edison NJ, San Jose CA, and more.

8. **T-Mobile**:

   - **401(k) Offerings**: New hires at T-Mobile can invest in the 401(k) plan, with company
     matching 100% of the first 3% and 50% of the next 2% of contributions.
   - **Hiring Locations**: New York, Memphis TN, Bellevue WA, Colorado Springs CO, Miami Beach FL,
     Wichita KS, and beyond.

9. **Lowe's**:

   - **401(k) Offerings**: Employees can enroll in Lowe's 401(k), with a 100% match on the first 3%
     saved each pay period, 50% on 4-5%, and 25% on 6%.
   - **Hiring Locations**: Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan.

10. **Starbucks**:
    - **401(k) Offerings**: Eligible employees can contribute up to 75% of their pay each period,
      with Starbucks matching 100% of the first 5% of contributions.
    - **Hiring Locations**: Various locations globally.

### Sources

- [Indeed](https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/career-development/companies-with-best-401k-matching)
