---
id: 1
title: 'DevToys: The Swiss Army Knife for Developers'
excerpt:
  DevToys is a collection of tools that we use on a daily basis. I hope you find them useful too.
category: tools
tags: [productivity]
featured_image: 'devtoys.png'
inspiration: https://devtoys.app/
published: 16 May 2023
---

## Introduction:

DevToys is a free, open-source, and offline Windows application designed to assist developers in
their daily tasks. Developed and maintained by Etienne Baudoux and Benjamin Titeux, this versatile
tool offers a wide range of features to streamline developers' workflows. With 27+ tools available
and more on the way, DevToys aims to be the go-to solution for various development needs.

## Offline Convenience:

One of the standout features of DevToys is its ability to work entirely offline. Developers no
longer need to rely on numerous unreliable websites to perform simple tasks with their data. DevToys
ensures a seamless experience without the need for an internet connection, providing convenience and
reliability.

## Toolset Highlights:

The application offers a diverse set of tools, these are some we use on a daily basis:

- URL Decoder
- UUID Generator
- Timestamp Converter
- Image Compressor
- Image Converter
- Lorem Ipsum Generator

DevToys incorporates a Smart Detection feature that automatically identifies the most suitable tool
based on the clipboard content. An intuitive lightbulb icon indicates the tool(s) compatible with
the clipboard content. If only one tool is detected, the clipboard content is automatically pasted
into that tool, enhancing speed and efficiency. Users have the option to customize the Smart
Detection behavior according to their preferences in the app settings.

## Windows Integration and User-Friendly Interface:

DevToys has been developed to seamlessly integrate with the Windows ecosystem. It offers features
such as Compact Overlay (Picture-in-Picture) mode, tool pinning to the Start Menu, tool search
functionality, syntax highlighting, support for multiple instances, and a modern and responsive user
interface. The application caters to the specific needs of Windows users while prioritizing
user-friendliness and intuitive design.

## Screenshots and Tools:

DevToys provides a visual representation of its various tools through screenshots. Users can refer
to these screenshots to gain a better understanding of the available tools. Some of the tools
showcased include Base64 text encoder and decoder, GUID generator, Hash generator, JSON formatter,
Markdown preview, Regex tester, URL encoder and decoder, XML formatter, and many others. This
comprehensive toolset covers a wide range of development tasks.
